In this lecture, we look at how to handle hidden elements in selenium.
So what are hidden elements?
The hidden app tribute is a boolean attribute, which means it returns a true or false value.
When this attribute is set, it specifies that an element is not yet or is no longer relevant.
A browser should not display an element that has the hidden attributes set.
The hidden attribute can also be used to keep a user from seeing an element until a condition has been
met.
For example, if we had a website and it had a form that asks views if they owned a pet, if they choose
yes, then more options might be revealed.
For example, what type of pet do you own?
So example of a hidden element.
The hidden attribute has been assigned to a P tag.
The element remains listed in the document object model listed as number one in the image.
It is not displayed to the user via the browser.
If the hidden attribute was removed from the P tag, it would be displayed in the line marked number
two in the image.
So let's look at the is displayed method.
The IS displayed method is used to verify presence of a web element within the web page.
The method is designed to result from a boolean value.
With each success and failure.
The method returns a true value if the specified web element is present on the web page and a false
value.
If the web element is not present on the web page, we might write something like Driver to find element,
but the SS selector is displayed.
So let's try this out.
So the first thing I'm going to do is walk you through to test some open up chrome.
I want to go to automation tested and I'm going to click on the Hidden Elements link, which will take
you to this page.
So the section that we're going to be using is this hidden paragraph section.
And the first thing I'm going to do is right click and inspect the page.
So there is actually a hidden P elements paragraph within this text here.
And if I want you to select it all and focus on this section.
If I expand the.
Element like.
So you see that there's a p tag with the hidden attributes that.
But that particular line is not displayed on the Web page because of that hidden attribute.
But if I went to the next element that hasn't got the the hidden attributes that you'll see is displayed
there.
So we're going to test against this hidden P element and we're also going to test this one as well.
So the first thing I'm going to do is go to Eclipse and I'm going to copy and paste the class in the
last lecture, and I'm going to call it L13 for lecture 13 and I'm going to call it Hidden Elements
and then click, okay.
I'm simply going to remove the code we don't require from the last lecture, and I'm going to go back
to the web page and get the URL and paste that into to get a fit.
Like so.
So I'm going to go back to the Web page and I'm going to find that hidden element, which is this one
and using the selected.
So I'm going to click it.
And if I go to runner ups velocity, I'm provider of selectors, so I'm just going to pick this first
one.
And I'm going to go back and I'm going to write driver dot find elements by system selector in quotes.
I'm going to use that selector value and I'm going to use is displayed like so it was semicolon.
So I'm going to go back and I'm also going to get the value of this second one.
So I'm just going to take that selector and I'm also going to try driver to find elements by CSF selector.
Again, copy the set.
The value and only use is displayed through a semicolon.
So I am going to test the is displayed method to see if the first selector, the hidden one is displayed
on the web page.
And then I'm going to use is displayed method again for the second one that we know is visible on the
web page.
So I need to display the results of these tests in the console and to do that as we have done previously.
I'm going to write a system out of print that will end with brackets and a semicolon.
So I'm going to copy and paste that because I need a second time and what I'm going to do to remove
the semicolon from this line and highlight it and control X to cut it and control B to paste it.
And I'm going to do the same to the second one.
So move the semicolon, control X to cut it and control B to paste it.
So we're going to be running two tests.
The first one is for the hidden element, and the second one is the one that is about is is visible.
So I'm going to save this and I'm going to try running the test.
So if we go back.
You see, the first one because it's hidden is returned false and because the second one was visible
so it is displayed on the web page.
Is return true?
I hope you found this select useful and thank you for watching.